# August 13 2013

## [`TypeFamilies`](http://brandon.si/code/a-typefamilies-primer/)

The article really put it together for me.

Normal type synonyms (`type Pair a = (a, a)`) can be thought of as very limited
type-level functions, perhaps natural transformations?

But we can't inspect the argument, i.e. no pattern matching. So,
`TypeFamilies`:

    -- we have to "declare" `Last` separately, and the "family"
    -- here distinguishes the syntax from a normal type synonym:
    type family   Last l

    -- ...and then can define our "cases":
    type instance Last (a,())     = a
    type instance Last (a,(b,bs)) = Last (b,bs)

And they generalize type synonyms:

    type family   PairOf a
    type instance PairOf a = (a,a)

Now we can use `Last`:

    class LastOfTupleList l where
        last' :: l -> Last l      -- < we use our `Last` type function

    instance LastOfTupleList (a,()) where
        last' (a,()) = a  -- < the type-checker can see that, indeed, `a`
                          --   is equal to `Last (a,())`

    instance (LastOfTupleList (b, bs)) => LastOfTupleList (a,(b,bs)) where
        last' (a,(b,bs)) = last' (b,bs)

One thing to note about these functions is that they're open, so new instances
can always be added. Overlaps aren't allowed! They're more like typeclasses
than regular functions.


We can simplify a little with associated types:

    class LastOfTupleList l  where
        type Last l        -- an *associated* type family
        last' :: l -> Last l

    instance LastOfTupleList (a,()) where
        type Last (a,()) = a
        last' (a,()) = a

    -- The article doesn't include this one, but I assume it must be needed
    instance LastOfTupleList (a,(b,bs)) where
        type Last (a,(b,bs)) = Last (b,bs)
        last' (a,(b,bs)) = last' bs

Type family instances *aren't injective*. I get the feeling this is really
important for typechecking. Since two type functions can map to the same type:

    type instance F Int  = Bool
    type instance F Char = Bool

... The typechecker won't be able to infer the argument from the result.

However, data families solve that by introducing constructors:

    data family T a
    data    instance T Int  = T1 Int | T2 Bool -- new constructors T1 and T2 defined here
    newtype instance T Char = TC Bool

Type equality constraints are introduced with `~`, kind signatures are
sometimes required (?).

## React Transitions

http://jsfiddle.net/uVBnG/20/
https://github.com/petehunt/react-transitions

## Haskell Automatic Differentiation

I should really find a use for [ad](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/ad-3.4).
Edward Kmett really sells it well [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/haskell/comments/1k3fq7/what_are_some_killer_libraries_and_frameworks/cbldpgy).

> This has been used to make robots see the world, calculate risk in financial
> models, do back-propagation in neural networks, layout railroad tracks, model
> the response time of neurons in the back of the head of a locust strapped to
> a table as objects loom overhead, accelerate ray tracing, speed up Bayesian
> networks, and a whole host of other things that people just never bothered to
> tell me about.

## I Also Read

* [Generalizing generic fold](http://ro-che.info/articles/2013-03-11-generalizing-gfoldl.html)
* [gtraverse vs gfoldl](http://ro-che.info/articles/2013-03-29-gtraverse-vs-gfoldl.html)

The author defines his own `gtraverse` which is equivalent to `gfoldl` but, he
claims, makes it easier to present an alternate view of the type from what's
directly implied by its definition. For example, uniform instances for lists.
