# Sunday, August 11, 2013

## Generic Programming

I just finished reading the second of the three "scrap your boilerplate"
papers.

Summary:

    gmapQ :: (forall a. Data b => b -> r) -> a -> [r]

`gmapQ` applies the given function to each of the immediate children of the
given data.

Now given `toConstr` and `showConstr`, we can easily implement `show` using
generics.

    toConstr :: a -> Constr
    showConstr :: Constr -> String

    gshow :: Data a => a -> String
    gshow t = "(" ++ showConstr (toConstr t)
        ++ concat (intersperse " " (gmapQ gshow t)) ++ ")"

Pretty cool! Converting datatypes to trees is also really easy.

    data Tree a = Tree a [Tree a]

    data2tree :: Data a => a -> Tree String
    data2tree x = Tree (showConstr (toConstr x))
                       (gmapQ data2tree x)

`read` is also possible to implement with generics, but it's... more
complicated. But these guys help!

    -- nonstrict
    dataTypeOf :: a -> DataType

    -- strict
    toConstr :: a -> Constr

    -- dualizes gfoldl
    gunfold :: (forall b r. Data b => c (b -> r) -> c r)
            -> (forall r. r -> c r) -> Constr
            -> c a

For reference:

    gfoldl :: (forall d b. Data d => c (d -> b) -> d -> c b)
           -> (forall g. g -> c g)
           -> a
           -> c a

So `gfoldl` breaks down constructor applications and `gunfold` builds them up.

    gfoldl _ z [] = z []
    gfoldl f z (x:xs) = z (:) `f` x `f` xs

    gfoldl _ z Nothing = z Nothing
    gfoldl f z (Just x) = z Just `f` x

The constructor is passed to `z` as a base case and everything is folded with
`f`.

`DataType` and `Constr` are abstract.

    gmapQ :: Data a
          => (forall b. Data b => b -> r)
          -> a -> [r]

    gzipWithQ :: (Data a1, Data a2)
              => (forall b1 b2. (Data b1, Data b2)
                                => b1 -> b2 -> r)
              -> a1 -> a2 -> [r]

`gmapQ` applies a function to all the immediate children of its argument and
returns a list of the results. `gzipWithQ` applies a function to the
corresponding pairs of immediate children of its arguments and again returns a
list of results.

    type GenericQ r = forall a. Data a => a -> r

`GenericQ r` is a generic query that takes any `Data` and returns an r.

So... `gmapQ :: GenericQ r -> GenericQ [r]` apparently. Yeah, that makes sense.
They call it a "generic-query transformer".

    gzipWithQ :: GenericQ (GenericQ r) -> GenericQ (GenericQ [r])

That makes `gzipWithQ` something utterly incomprehensible. (It's easy to
implement `Eq` with `gzipWithQ`)

There are similarly generic transformations.

It's easy to extend generic functions at particular types. For instance the
instance of `Show` for `String` is special:

    gshow :: Data a => a -> String
    gshow = gshow_help ‘ext1Q‘ gshowList
                       ‘extQ‘ showString

    gshowList :: Data b => [b] -> String
    showString :: String -> String

The implementation of `extQ` uses `cast :: (Typeable a, Typeable b) => a ->
Maybe b`.

We can also generalize `cast`, which I didn't quite follow.

## Musings

It strikes me that all generic programming is is increasingly fancy ways of
telling the compiler what code should be executed. How is it the same as
typeclasses?

How can that functionality be built into the language?

### Typeclasses

    class Cls where
        a :: Cls
        b :: x -> Cls

Typeclasses are:
* open - add an instance anytime
* non-overlapping
* operations on a type

### Generics

    f :: Data a => Int

Generics are:
* traversals of any instance of `Data`
* extensible by providing more specific instances (how do overlaps work?)

1. [Scrap your boilerplate: a practical approach to generic programming](/files/hmap.pdf)
2. [Scrap More Boilerplate: Reflection, Zips, and Generalised Casts](/files/gmap2.pdf)
3. [Scrap your boilerplate with class: extensible generic functions](/files/gmap3.pdf)

Apparently there's also a Dependent Types article [Generic Programming within Dependently Typed Programming](/files/genprog.pdf) I should read next.
