# Monday, August 26, 2013

## `console.trace`

Holy shit - where has [console.trace](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console.trace) been all my life? (outputs a stack trace to the console)

## `??`

Lens has this neat combinator `(??) :: Functor f => f (a -> b) -> a -> f b` -
an infix version of flip, read as a placeholder for a missing argument.

## `Prism` and `Iso`

So...

    type Lens s t a b = forall f. Functor f =>
        (a -> f b) -> s -> f t
    type Prism s t a b = forall k f. (Prismatic k, Applicative f) =>
        k (a -> f b) (s -> f t)
    type Iso s t a b = forall k f. (Isomorphic k, Functor f) =>
        k (a -> f b) (s -> f t)

    -- Isomorphic provides
    iso :: Functor f => (s -> a) -> (b -> t) -> k (a -> f b) (s -> f t)

    -- Prismatic provides
    prism :: Applicative f => (b -> t) -> (s -> Either t a) -> k (a -> f b) (s -> f t)

Those types are all very similar:
    * `Lens` is about viewing parts of product types
    * `Prism` is about maybe viewing alternatives in sum types
    * `Iso` is about doing both, I guess.

`->` is an instance of both `Prismatic` and `Isomorphic`.

`Prism` is the dual of `Lens`.

Oh, this was started by watching this [interview of ekmett](http://www.haskellcast.com/episode/001-edward-kmett-on-lenses/).

`.~` sets:

    >>> (a,b,c,d) & _4 .~ e
    (a,b,c,e)

`.=` is the monadic version:

    >>> execState (do _1 .= c; _2 .= d) (a,b)
    (c,d)

`^.` gets:

    >>> (a,b)^._2
    b

`^?` - safe head:

    >>> Right 4 ^? _Left
    Nothing

`^..` - list of results:

    >>> (1,2) ^.. both
    [1,2]
    >>> [[[1,2]],[[3]],[]]^..traverse.traverse.traverse
    [1,2,3]

`Traversal`s solve the problem of maybe not having any results (or many
results) by using a monoid instance.

`Prism`s can be turned around, which `Traversal`s can't.

`inside`, `outside`, `alongside`, `aside`!

    -- Lift a Lens so it can run under a function.
    inside :: Lens s t a b
           -> Lens (e -> s) (e -> t) (e -> a) (e -> b)

    -- Use a Prism as a kind of first-class pattern.
    outside :: Prism s t a b
            -> Lens (t -> r) (s -> r) (b -> r) (a -> r)

    -- alongside makes a Lens from two other lenses.
    alongside :: Lens s t a b
              -> Lens s' t' a' b'
              -> Lens (s, s') (t, t') (a, a') (b, b')

    -- Use a Prism to work over part of a structure.
    aside :: Prism s t a b
          -> Prism (e, s) (e, t) (e, a) (e, b)

    > let fn = either (const 1) (const 2) & outside _Right .~ (+1)
      in fn (Right 10)
    11

    > (\x -> (x, 10)) & inside _1 .~ (+1) $ 8
    (9, 10)
