# Sunday, August 26, 2012

## 4:13 PM

[Quaternion differentiation](http://fgiesen.wordpress.com/2012/08/24/quaternion-differentiation/)

## 6:02 PM

[Haskell lens package](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/lens) by Edward Kmett. This looks brilliant - example:

    > ("hello",("world","!!!"))^._2._1
    "world"

## 8:04 PM

MJD has an indispensable set of blog posts about working with git *well*:

    * [My Git Habits](http://blog.plover.com/prog/git-habits.html)
    * [Rewriting published history in Git](http://blog.plover.com/prog/git-vacillation.html)

### Notes on the first

`git add -p`: Interactively choose hunks - similar to `git add -i` but without
the weird menu.

`--cached`: I've seen this option used several places, and always wondered what it meant. It turns out the cache is just an olde name for the index. Damn git. Thus `git diff --cached` == `git diff --staged`. Unfortunately not all commands are as consistent... From the man page for `git ls-files`:

> -c, --cached
>            Show cached files in the output (default)
>
> -s, --stage
>            Show staged contents' object name, mode bits and stage number in the output.

So just different ways of displaying the index. Thus `git rm --cached` removes the file from the index without deleting it.

Aside - the stage number is usually 0, but during a merge it can change for files with merge conflicts.

Aside 2 - other words for the index: "staging area", "cache".

`git apply`: Apply a patch to files and/or to the index.

> Reads the supplied diff output (i.e. "a patch") and applies it to files. With the --index option the patch is also applied to the index, and with the --cached option the patch is only applied to the index. Without these options, the command applies the patch only to files, and does not require them to be in a git repository.

> I can't know the sensible order for the commits until I know what the commits are!

`git status --short`: didn't know this existed - looks very nice! (now aliased to `git s`)

`git commit --fixup`: create a fixup commit - a commit whose subject begins with "fixup!". This can be used with `git rebase --autosquash`.

In the example he runs `git commit --fixup :/mock`. The `:/mock` part names the most recent commit whose message begins with "mock". Example: In this repository is commit fe74419565abb9bc96c7fe89646f7213a764696c, with commit message "Add LICENSE and README". I can run `git show :/Add` to show that commit - check it out!

`git add -u` exists.

It sounds like the pobox guys are pretty good... so here's their [open source code](https://github.com/pobox).

## 9:22 PM [Ben Alpert](http://benalpert.com/)'s css talk.

[Slides available here](https://speakerdeck.com/u/spicyj/p/css)

`width`, `height`, etc. - "movements" - don't make sense on inline elements, doesn't do anything. Almost always want to use block elements to lay things out.

### Box model

See diagram on slide 10

`width` sets the width of the text - not any of the other boxes. If you want to make a block element take up 100 % of the space of the parent use `width: auto;` (the default, slide 11) instead of `width: %100;`, which will set the width of the text that wide and the padding, border, and margin (not sure about margin) will stick out.

`width` normally affects the width of the text (slide 17) but you might want to set the width with the border included (slide 18). Use `box-sizing: border-box;` (slide 20).

### Specificity

Among contradictory css selectors, which one wins? On slide 22 the text is green because the selectors have equal specificity and the green one comes last, so it wins. Slide 23 is analogous. Changing `.green` to `div.green` makes the selector more specific.

To calculate specificity count the number of ids, classes, and elements in the selector (slide 25). Go left to right - the selector with most id's wins, if that's a tie check classes, if that's a tie check elements. `+` doesn't change specificity. * doesn't even count as an element. Examples on slides 26 and 27.

Aside (css spec):
> "E + F" Matches any F element immediately preceded by a sibling element E.

Aside 2: 256 classes will override an id in most browsers... "don't do that".

### Demo

I don't have the code for this :(

Really hard to center things vertically in CSS - don't try, `top: auto;`, `bottom: auto;` - means "0".

Faux-columns: to get the beautiful colored columns you've always wanted, just cheat and create a horizontal strip with the right colors to set as the background, don't do it in pure css - too brittle (slide 29).

`overflow: hidden;` can be used instead of clearfix.

If you want to create a fluid layout and still get the faux columns you can use a pretty cool technique. Say we want the blue column to take up 33% of the element and the white to take up 67%. Then set `background-position: 66.67% 0;` - this will cause the image to always be positioned correctly (slide 31).

`inline-block` can lead to weird spacing bugs - make sure to remove all spaces between the elements.
