# Wednesday, August 22, 2012

## 10:38 AM

Underscore functions learned today:

* `reject`: Essentially the opposite of `filter`.
   
   Example:
   
       _([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]).reject(function(num){ return num % 2 == 0; });
   
       => [1, 3, 5]
       
* `find`: Returns the first value in a list that passes a truth test. Same as Haskell's `find :: (a -> Bool) -> [a] -> Maybe a` with the arguments reversed.

* `bind`: Bind a function's `this` to an object and optionally partially apply arguments.

    Example:
    
        var f = _(function(x, y) {
            return this.opening + (x + y);
        }).bind({opening: 'increment results: '}, 1);
        f(2) => "increment results: 3"

## 11:51 AM

### Handlebars templates:

  1. Add to packages.py as "sometemplate.handlebars"
  2. Load:
  
          var template = Templates.get("packagename.sometemplate");
          var context = {<context>};
          $('#container').html(template(context));
      
On a dev server the templates are embedded as inline `<script>` tags and compiled in the browser. On the live site they are precompiled. We only need to serve handlebars.vm.js - which doesn't include compiling - on the live site.

### Testing

See javascript/shared-package/hover-card-text.html for an example.

### Embed in jinja2 templates

    {{ handlebars_template('package', 'sometemplate', {<context>}) }}

## 12:19 PM

Underscore's `bindAll`: bind `this` on methods of the object passed in. Optionally pass in a list of the names of the methods that should be bound.

Example:

    var obj = {
        scoreX: 0,
        scoreY: 0,
        incX: function(){ this.scoreX += 1; },
        incY: function(){ this.scoreY += 1; }
    };
    
    _.bindAll(obj);
    
    // these will have the correct this
    $('#inc_x').bind('click', obj.incX);
    $('#inc_y').bind('click', obj.incY);

Still to do - learn how `this` works in the first place!

## 1:32 PM

Deleting multiple vim buffers:

  * range: `:3,5bdelete`
  * names `:bd buf1.txt buf2.c buf3.h`

## 2:48 PM

`hg blame -uw` - shows the author's name and ignores whitespace changes.

## 3:43 PM

IPython based shell with access to the app engine sdk, our models, and datastore access -
`/tools/devshell.py --host localhost:8087 --datastore_path ../datastores/current.sqlite`

## 4:35 PM

`git submdule add https://github.com/spolu/dwm.vim vim/bundle/dwm` - please try to remember this time, Joel.

## 4:20 PM

### Awarding Badges

Badges seem to be mostly declarative in that there isn't code scattered through the codebase, so it's kind of a mystery where and how they're awarded. It looks like there are a few typical codepaths to award a badge:

  * `update_with_no_context`: Called by `badge_update_map` (?), `update_with_user_exercise`, and `update_with_user_topic`.
  
  * `util_badges.update_with_user_exercise`: Called by `attempt_problem`.
 
  * `update_with_user_topic`: Called by `badge_update_map` and `VideoLog.add_entry`.
  
  * `update_with_triggers`: Called by `Feedback.insert_feedback` and `FinishVoteEntity.award_author_badges`. I'm not sure why it's named this way but this corresponds to the feedback context.

There correspond to four badge contexts (straight from the code):

        NONE: Context-less badges, which means they can only be earned once.
        EXERCISE: Exercise badges (can earn one for every Exercise).
        TOPIC: Topic badges (one for every Topic).
        FEEDBACK: Feedback badges (one for every piece of discussion Feedback).

Each of the `update_with` functions checks `not badge.is_manually_awarded()` `not badge.is_already_owned_by` then `badge.is_satisfied_by` before awarding the badge. These have defaults that are what you would typically want but can be overridden.

If you're not going to use one of these codepaths you should define this method in your new badge model:

    def is_manually_awarded(self):
        return True
