# Sunday, August 18, 2013

## [The algebra of Unix command substitution](http://bosker.wordpress.com/2013/08/16/using-group-theory-to-understand-unix-command-substitution/)

I want to start using algebra again :/

## Parametrized Monads

Generalize monads:

    class ParameterisedMonad m where
      return :: a -> m s s a
      (>>=) :: m s1 s2 t -> (t -> m s2 s3 a) -> m s1 s3 a

    x >> f = x >>= \_ -> f

But what's with two parameters - why's that useful.

> First a category theoretical aside: in [this
> post](http://blog.sigfpe.com/2008/11/from-monoids-to-monads.html) I talked
> about how monads were really a kind of abstract monoid. Well
> ParameterisedMonad is a kind of abstract category. If we were to implement
> join for this class it would play a role analogous to composition of arrows
> in a category. In a monoid you can multiply any old elements together to get
> a new element. In a category, you can't multiply two arrows together unless
> the tail of the second matches the head of the first.

Mind blown. I don't have a deep understanding but for instance with a normal
state monad the state always has to be the same, but in a parametrized monad
only connected states need to match.

Apparently you can use parametrized monads with do-notation using
`-XNoImplicitPrelude`.

The MOTHER OF ALL PARAMETERIZED MONADS

    newtype Cont r1 r2 a = Cont { runCont :: (a -> r2) -> r1 }
    instance ParameterisedMonad Cont where
      return a = Cont ($ a)
      m >>= k  = Cont $ \c -> runCont m $ \a -> runCont (k a) c

[Here's the paper (long)](/files/paramnotions.pdf)
[And the sigfpe blog post](http://blog.sigfpe.com/2009/02/beyond-monads.html)

## Comonads

[Riffing](/files/comonad.hs) on Ed Kmett's
[post](https://www.fpcomplete.com/user/edwardk/cellular-automata).

(pretty stoked I seem to have been able to implement a couple things he said
were challenging)

I used undefined a couple times, which gave me pause, but at the same time I
don't see any way to obtain a value of type `s` out of nowhere. Also, the value
can't be forced (right?) so it should be safe. Then we fmap over the structure
that was built up. The implementation in lens uses some extra machinery.

Here's the actual use of `Store`:

    rule :: Num s => Word8 -> Store s Bool -> Bool
    rule w (Store f s) = testBit w $
      0 & partsOf (taking 3 bits) .~ [f (s+1), f s, f (s-1)]

`0 & partsOf (taking 3 bits) .~ [f (s+1), f s, f (s-1)]` - take a zero and
selectively build a number in [0..7] depending on the value of `f` at `s+1, s,
s-1`.

Now, test the nth (n is the number we just build) bit of `w` (e.g. `110` in
`rule 110`). This determines whether that bit is set in the next step!

How is `Store` used? `rule 110 :: Store Int Bool -> Bool`, `extend (rule 110)
:: Store Int Bool -> Store Int Bool`. The final code contains `loop (rule 110)
$ Store (==0) 0`. Okay, so I guess it really is just a container to hold a test
(whether something is set (unset?) so we should(n't?) show it, along with the
initial configuration. This is more general than a bespoke comonad only
allowing you to view neighbors.

I think that's what sigfpe used in his article but I'll try to create one
without peeking.

    data Neighbors a = Neighbors [a] a [a]
          lft :: [a]
        , ctr :: a
        , rgt :: [a]
        }
    deriving instance Functor Neighbors

    left, right :: Neighbors a -> Neighbors a
    left (nbrs l c r) = Neighbors (drop 1 l) (head l) (c:r)
    right (nbrs l c r) = Neighbors (c:l) (head r) (drop 1 r)

    instance Comonad Neighbors where
        extract = ctr
        duplicate nbrs = Neighbors
            (drop 1 $ iterate left nbrs)
            nbrs
            (drop 1 $ iterate right nbrs)

Looks the same upon checking! But his is slicker than mine in a couple places:

    right (U a b (c:cs)) = U (b:a) c cs
    left  (U (a:as) b c) = U as a (b:c)

    cojoin a = U (tail $ iterate left a) a (tail $ iterate right a)
    coreturn (U _ b _) = b

We could probably take this further.
